---
title: "Bugs are inevitable in software development"
excerpt: "Bugs are an inevitable byproduct of software development. Fixing every bug isn’t always the top priority because bug-free software doesn’t guarantee usefulness, and software with bugs can still deliver value."
slug: "2025-09-25-shipping-seo-for-a-single-page-app-the-pragmatic-way"
published_at: 2025-09-25
author: "gocanto"
categories: "engineering"
tags: ["engineering", "leadership", "integrations", "development", "software"]
---



Disappointment arises when expectations don't align with reality, especially in the realm of. The prevalence of bugs in software often leads to continuous frustration and even anger among users. 
However, it's essential to have a more formal and concise perspective on this matter.

The most reliable way to ensure impeccable software quality is by writing less software that performs fewer functions and dedicating ample time to refining that limited scope. Unfortunately, this approach 
is rarely compatible with achieving commercial success or satisfying programmer motivations. For example, the market's reception of a product that reduces features to minimise bugs would not be enthusiastic.

Bugs are an inevitable byproduct of software development, and while various techniques promise to reduce their occurrence, complete eradication is not feasible. Understanding this fact is crucial to 
comprehending why fixing every bug may not always be the top priority. Bug-free software does not guarantee usefulness, and software with bugs can still possess significant value.

Therefore, it is crucial to consider other factors, such as problem-solving capabilities, existing adoption, integrations, brand recognition, and user enjoyment, when assessing the value of software. 
Software organisations prioritise their backlog of bugs based on the number of affected users and the severity of the issue. It is not feasible to address every bug immediately, and more extensive software packages often have many open bugs, which is a normal occurrence.

In conclusion, adopting a more formal and concise approach to software quality necessitates acknowledging the inevitability of bugs and recognising that their absence is merely one aspect of success. 
Recognising the complexities involved in software development and the factors determining software value can help foster a more rational perspective among users and developers.
